---
title: Cryptography - PKI - Public Key Infrastructure
date: 2018-05-18 11:11:11 -0400
categories: [13Cryptography, PKI]
tags: [cryptography]
toc: true
image:
---


[toc]

---



# PKI Public Key Infrastructure


public key encryption’s major strength:
- ability to facilitate communication between parties previously unknown to each other.
  - facilitate the secure electronic transfer of information for a range of network activities
    - such as e-commerce, internet banking and confidential email.
- Made possible by (PKI) public key infrastructure 基础设施 hierarchy 等级制度 of trust relationships.
- able to find and access public keys on demand.

A public key infrastructure (PKI)
1. a set of roles, policies, and procedures needed
   - to create, manage, distribute, use, store, and revoke keys and digital certificates safely and securely.

2. the component of PKI:
   - Certificate authority (CA):
     - the entity responsible for <font color=red> enrollment, creation, management, validation and revocation of digital certificates </font>
     - key element in a PKI
   - Registration authority (RA):
     - the entity responsible for accepting info about a party wishing to obtain a certificate
     - RAs generally do not issue or manage certificates.
     - entities known as local registration authorities (LRAs) are delegated the ability to issue certificate by a CA.
   - Certificate revocation list (CRL):
     - a list of revoked certificates, published by CA.
   - Digital certificates:
     - prices of information.
     - Used to positively prove the identity.
   - Certificate distribution system:
     - a combination of software, hardware, services, and procedures used to distribute certificates.
     - A PKI is made up of hardware, applications, policies, services, programming interfaces, cryptographic algorithms, protocols, users, and utilities.

3. implementing a PKI boils down to establishing a level of trust.
   - These trusts permit combining asymmetric cryptography with symmetric cryptography along with hashing and digital certificates, giving us hybrid cryptography.
   - Asymmetric encryption depends on the use of certificates for a variety of purposes:
     - protecting email and Internet traffic with SSL and TLS.
     - HTTPS sessions protect Internet credit card transactions, and these transactions depend on a PKI.

4. primary benefit of a PKI:
   - allows two people or entities to <font color=red>  communicate securely without knowing each other previously </font>
   - allows  <font color=red> communicate securely through an insecure public medium </font>
     - like Internet
   - small groups:
     - possible for users to exchange public keys based on a previously established level of trust.
   - big organizations:
     - PKI provides solution: provides a mechanism through which keys can be generated and bound to a digital certificate that can be viewed and validated by all parties.
   - Example
     - establish a secure session with Amazon.com even if you’ve never done so before.
     - Amazon purchased a certificate from Symantec.
     - the certificate provides the ability to establish a secure session.


5. public keys must be distributed or stored in a secure manner
   - prevents the keys from being tampered with or altered in any way.









.
