

# Glossary

`accumulator pattern`
- A pattern where the program initializes an `accumulator variable` and then changes it during each iteration, accumulating a final result.

`activecode`
A unique interpreter environment that allows Python to be executed from within a web browser.

`algorithm`
A step by step list of instructions that if followed exactly will solve the problem under consideration.

`argument`
- A value provided to a function when the function is called. This value is assigned to the corresponding parameter in the function.
- The argument can be the result of an expression which may involve operators, operands and calls to other fruitful functions.



`assignment token`
- `=` is Python’s assignment token, which should not be confused with the mathematical comparison operator using the same symbol.

`attribute`
- One of the named data items that makes up an instance.




`block`
- A group of consecutive statements with the same indentation.

`body`
- The block of statements in a `compound statement` that follows the `header`.
- The second part of a compound statement.
- The body consists of a sequence of statements all indented the same amount from the beginning of the header. The standard amount of indentation used within the Python community is 4 spaces.

`boolean expression`
- An expression that is either true or false.

`boolean value`
- There are exactly two boolean values: True and False. Boolean values result when a boolean expression is evaluated by the Python interepreter. They have type bool.


`branch`
- One of the possible paths of the flow of execution determined by conditional execution.


`bug`
An error in a program.




`byte code`
- An intermediate language between `source code` and `object code`. Many modern languages first compile source code into byte code and then interpret the byte code with a program called a virtual machine.


`calling stack`
- A sequence (stack) of frames, showing all the function calls that are in process but not yet complete. When one function’s code invokes another function call, there will be more than one frame on the stack.

`class`
- A user-defined compound type. A class can also be thought of as a template for the objects that are instances of it.



`compound statement`
- A statement that consists of two parts:
  - `header`: begins with a keyword determining the statement type, and ends with a colon.
  - `body`: containing one or more statements indented the same amount from the header.
- The syntax of a compound statement looks like this:
    ```py
    keyword expression:
        statement
        statement
        ...
    ```

`condition`
The boolean expression in a conditional statement that determines which branch is executed.
- `chained conditional`
  - A conditional branch with more than two possible flows of execution. `if ... elif ... else statements`.
- `conditional statement`
  - A statement that controls the flow of execution depending on some condition. keywords `if, elif, and else` are used for conditional statements.

`constructor`
- Every class has a “factory”, called by the same name as the class, for making new instances. If the class has an initializer method, this method is used to get the attributes (i.e. the state) of the new object properly set up.


`class`
- see data type below

`close()`
- When you are done with a file, you should close it.

`codelens`
An interactive environment that allows the user to control the step by step execution of a Python program

`comment`
Information in a program that is meant for other programmers (or anyone reading the source code) and `has no effect on the execution` of the program.

`comparison operator`
- One of the operators that compares two values: ==, !=, >, <, >=, and <=.

`compile`
To translate a program written in a high-level language into a low-level language all at once, in preparation for later execution.

`Control Flow`
Also known as the `flow of execution`, the order in which a program executes. By default, the control flow is *sequential*.

`data type`
A set of values. The type of a value determines how it can be used in expressions. So far, the types you have seen are integers (int), floating-point numbers (float), and strings (str).


`debugging`
The process of finding and removing any of the three kinds of programming errors:
  - *syntax error*,
  - *semantic error*,
  - and *runtime error*.

`decrement`
Decrease by 1.

`deterministic`
A process that is repeatable and predictable.


`dictionary`
- A collection of `key-value pairs` that maps from keys to values.
- The `keys` can be any immutable type, and the `values` can be any type.


`docstring`
- If the first thing in a `function body` is a `string`, that is attached to the function as its `__doc__` attribute.

`documentation`
A place where you can go to get detailed information about aspects of your programming language.



`evaluate`
To simplify an expression by performing the operations in order to yield a single value.

`expression`
A combination of `operators` and `operands` (variables and values) that represents a single result value. Expressions are evaluated to give that result.


`exception`
Another name for a runtime error.

`executable`
- Another name for object code that is ready to be executed.

`float`
- A Python data type which stores floating-point numbers. Floating-point numbers are stored internally in two parts: a base and an exponent. When printed in the standard format, they look like decimal numbers. Beware of rounding errors when you use floats, and remember that they are only approximate values.

`flow of execution`
- The order in which statements are executed during a program run.

---

`for loop traversal (for)`
- Traversing a string or a list means accessing each character in the string or item in the list, one at a time.
- `for iterator.variable in iterable: body statement`
- executes the body of the loop severous times with different values of ix each time.
- A variable or value used to select a member of an ordered collection, such as a character from a string, or an element from a list.
- The loop body contains the statements of the program that will be iterate through upon each loop. The loop body is always indented.


`formal language`
Any one of the languages that people have designed for specific purposes, such as representing mathematical ideas or computer programs; all programming languages are formal languages.


`function`
- A named sequence of statements that performs some useful operation.
- Functions may or may not take parameters and may or may not produce a result.


`function call`
- A statement that executes a function.
- t consists of the name of the function followed by a list of arguments enclosed in parentheses.

`function composition` 混合物
- Using the output from one function call as the input to another.

`function definition`
- A statement that creates a new function, specifying its name, parameters, and the statements it executes.

`fruitful function`
- A function that returns a value when it is called.


`global variable`
- A variable defined at the top level, not inside any function.

`header line`
- The first part of a compound statement. A header line begins with a keyword and ends with a colon (:)



`high-level language`
A programming language like Python that is designed to be easy for humans to read and write.

`increment`
Both as a noun and as a verb, increment means to increase by 1.

`index`
- A variable or value used to select a member of an ordered collection, such as a character from a string, or an element from a list.

`initialization (of a variable)`
To initialize a variable is to give it an initial value. variables don’t exist until they are assigned values, they are initialized when they are created. In other programming languages this is not the case, and variables can be created without being initialized, in which case they have either default or garbage values.

`initializer method`
- A special method in Python (`__init__`) that is invoked automatically to set a newly created object’s attributes to their initial (factory-default) state.

`instance`
- An object whose type is of some `class`.
- The words instance and object are used interchangeably.

`instance variable`
- A variable that stores a value associated with the instance. The instance variables together store the state of an instance.

`instantiate` 例示
- To create an instance of a class, and to run its initializer.



`int`
A Python data type that holds positive and negative whole numbers.

`integer division`
An operation that divides one integer by another and yields an integer. Integer division yields only the whole number of times that the numerator is divisible by the denominator and discards any remainder.

`interpret`
To execute a program in a high-level language by translating it one line at a time.

`key`
- A data item that is mapped to a value in a `dictionary`. `Keys` are used to look up `values` in a `dictionary`.

`key-value pair`
- One of `the pairs of items` in a dictionary. Values are looked up in a dictionary by key.



`keyword`
- A reserved word that is used by the compiler to parse program; you cannot use keywords like if, def, and while as variable names.

`literal`
- A number or string that is written directly in a program. Sometimes these are also referred to as literal values, or just values, but be careful not to confuse a literal value as written in a program with an internal value maintained by the Python interpreter during execution of a program.


`lifetime`
- Variables and objects have lifetimes — they are created at some point during program execution, and will be destroyed at some time.
- In python, `objects` live as long as there is some variable pointing to it, or it is part of some other compound object, like a list or a dictionary.
- In python, `local variables` live only until the function finishes execution.


`local variable`
- A variable defined inside a function. A local variable can only be used inside its function.
- `Parameters` of a function are also a special kind of local variable.


`logical operators`
- “and”, “or” and “not” are logical operators used to evaluate expressions. Their semantic meaning is similar to their English meaning.



`low-level language`
A programming language that is designed to be easy for a computer to execute; also called machine language or assembly language.

`mapping type`
- a data type comprised of `a collection of keys and associated values`.
- Python’s only built-in mapping type is the `dictionary`. Dictionaries implement the associative array abstract data type.

`method`
- A special kind of function that is invoked on objects of particular types of objects, using the syntax `<expr>.<methodname>(<additional parameter values>)`
- A function that is defined inside a class definition and is invoked on instances of that class.





`module`
A file containing Python definitions and statements intended for use in other Python programs. The contents of a module are made available to the other program by using the import statement.

`namespace`
- A naming system for making names unique, to avoid duplication and confusion. Within a namespace, no two names can be the same.


`natural language`
- Any one of the languages that people speak that evolved naturally.


`nesting` 嵌套
- One program structure within another, such as a conditional statement inside a branch of another conditional statement.

`None`
- A special Python value. One use in Python is that it is returned by functions that do not execute a return statement with a return argument.


`object`
- Also known as a `data object/value`. The fundamental things that programs are designed to manipulate (or that programmers ask to do things for them).
- A compound data type that is often used to model a thing or concept in the real world. It bundles together the data and the operations that are relevant for that kind of data. Instance and object are used interchangeably.

`object-oriented programming`
- A powerful style of programming in which data and the operations that manipulate it are organized into classes and methods.

`object-oriented language`
- A language that provides features, such as user-defined classes and inheritance, that facilitate object-oriented programming.

`object code`
- The output of the compiler after it translates the program.

`open()`
- You must open a file before you can read its contents.

`operand`
- One of the values on which an operator operates.

`operator`
- A special symbol that represents a simple computation like addition, multiplication, or string concatenation.
    - `logical operator`
      - One of the operators that combines `boolean expressions`: `and, or, and not`.
    - `modulus operator`
      - An operator, denoted with a percent sign ( %), that works on integers and yields the remainder when one number is divided by another.

`packing`
- When multiple values are specified, separated by commas, they are packed into a tuple.

`unpacking`
- When a tuple is assigned to a collection of variable names separated by commas, the tuple is unpacked and the separate values are assigned to each of the variables.

`pair`
- A tuple with exactly two items.

`parameter`
- A name used inside a function to refer to the value which was passed to it as an argument.


`parse`
- To examine a program and analyze the syntactic structure.



`pattern` 样式
- A sequence of statements, or a style of coding something that has general applicability in a number of different situations.
- Part of becoming a mature programmer is to learn and establish the patterns and algorithms that form your toolkit.



`portability`
A property of a program that can run on more than one kind of computer.

`print function`
A function used in a program or script that causes the Python interpreter to display a value on its output device.

`problem solving`
The process of *formulating* a problem, *finding* a solution, and *expressing* the solution.

`program`
A sequence of instructions that specifies to a computer actions and computations to be performed.

`programming language`
A vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

`prompt string`
Used during `interactive input` to provide the use with hints as to what type of value to enter.



`Python shell`
An `interactive user interface` to the Python interpreter, and the user of a Python shell types commands at the prompt (>>>), and presses the return key to send these commands immediately to the interpreter for processing. To initiate the Python Shell, the user should open the terminal and type “python”. Once the user presses enter, the Python Shell appears and the user can interact with it.

`range()`
- A function that produces a list of numbers. For example, range(5) [0, 1, 2, 3, 4].


`random number`
A number that is generated in such a way as to exhibit statistical randomness.

`random number generator`
A function that will provide you with random numbers, usually between 0 and 1.

`range()`
- A function that produces a list of numbers. For example, range(5), produces a list of five numbers, starting with 0, [0, 1, 2, 3, 4].

`read()` --> `string`
- Will read the entire contents of a file as a `string`. This is often used in an assignment statement so that a variable can reference the contents of the file.

`readline()`
- Will read a single line from the file, up to and including the first instance of the newline character.

`readlines()` --> `list of strings`
- Will read the entire contents of a file into a `list` where each line of the file is a string and is an element in the list.


`reference diagram`
- A picture showing a `variable` with an arrow pointing to the `value (object`) that the variable refers to. See also state snapshot.

`return value`
- The value provided as the result of a function call.



`rules of precedence`
- The set of rules governing the order in which expressions involving multiple operators and operands are evaluated.


`runtime error`
- An error that `does not occur until the program has started to execute` but that prevents the program from continuing.

`semantic error`
- An error in a program that makes it do something other than what the programmer intended.

`semantics` 语义学
The meaning of a program.

`sequential flow`
- The execution of a program from top to bottom, one statement at a time

`shell mode`
A mode of using Python where expressions can be typed and executed in the command prompt, and the results are shown immediately in the command terminal window. Shell mode is initiated by opening the terminal of your operating system and typing “python”. Press enter and the Python Shell will appear. This is in contrast to source code. Also see the entry under Python shell.


`side effect`
- Some lasting effect of a function call, other than its return value.
- Side effects include `print statements`, `changes to mutable objects`, and `changes to the values of global variables`.


`stack frame`
- A frame that keeps track of the values of local variables during a function execution, and where to return control when the function execution completes.

`.sort()`
- A `method` that sorts a list in place, changing the contents of the list. It return None, not a new list.

`sorted()`
- A function that returns a sorted list, without changing the original.
  - reverse parameter
    - If True, the sorting is done in reverse order.
  - key parameter
    - If a value is specified, it must be a function object that takes one parameter. The function will be called once for each item in the list that’s getting sorted. The return value will be used to decorate the item with a post-it note. Values on the post-it notes are used to determine the sort order of the items.



`source code`
- The instructions in a program, stored in a file, in a `high-level language` before being compiled or interpreted.

`standard library`
- A collection of modules that are part of the normal installation of Python.

`state snapshot`
- A graphical representation of a set of variables and the values to which they refer, taken at a particular instant during the program’s execution.

`statement`
- An instruction that the Python interpreter can execute. assignment statement, import statement, for statement...

`str`
- A Python data type that holds a string of characters.



`syntax`
- The structure of a program.

`syntax error`
- An error in a program that makes it impossible to parse — and therefore impossible to interpret.

`terminating condition`
- A condition which stops an iteration from continuing


`test case`
- An assertion about the state of the program at particular point in its execution, such as the type of a variable or of a value returned by a function.
  - `return value test`
    - A return value test invokes a function on a particular set of inputs and checks whether the return value is the correct one for those inputs.
  - `side effect test`
    - A side effect test invokes a function or method and then checks whether some object’s contents were suitably transformed by the end of the execution of the function or method.



`token`
- One of the basic elements of the syntactic structure of a program, analogous to a word in a natural language.

`traverse`
- To iterate through the elements of a collection, performing a similar operation on each.

`type conversion function`
- A function that can convert a data value from one type to another.

`tuple`
- A type of sequence, much like a list but immutable.
- A tuple is created by enclosing one or more values in parentheses, separated by commas.

`unary selection`
- A selection statement in which there is `only an “if” statement` and the “else” statement is omitted entirely. In an unary selection, the statements are only executed if the condition evaluates to true, otherwise the program continues to the body following the if statement.


`value`
- A number or `string` (or other things to be named later) that can be stored in a variable or computed in an expression.
- The value that is associated with each key in a `dictionary`.



`variable`
A name that refers to a value.

`variable name`
A name given to a variable. Variable names in Python consist of a sequence of letters `(a..z, A..Z, and _)` and digits (0..9) that begins with a letter. In best programming practice, variable names should be chosen so that they describe their use in the program, making the program self documenting.


`write()`
- Will add characters to the end of a file that has been opened for writing.
