
- [18. Test Cases](#18-test-cases)
  - [Intro](#intro)
  - [18.1 test.testEqual](#181-testtestequal)
  - [18.2. Checking Assumptions 假定 About Data Types](#182-checking-assumptions-假定-about-data-types)
  - [18.3. Checking Other Assumptions](#183-checking-other-assumptions)
  - [18.4. Testing Conditionals](#184-testing-conditionals)
  - [18.5. Testing Loops](#185-testing-loops)
  - [18.6. Writing Test Cases for Functions](#186-writing-test-cases-for-functions)
    - [18.6.1. Return Value Tests](#1861-return-value-tests)
    - [18.6.2. Side Effect Tests](#1862-side-effect-tests)
    - [18.7. Testing Optional Parameters](#187-testing-optional-parameters)
  - [18.8. 👩‍💻 Program Development](#188--program-development)



# 18. Test Cases

## Intro

There are several reasons why it’s a good habit to write test cases.

- to keep in mind what it should do, writing down test cases to be more concrete about what should happen.
- test cases can provide automated feedback.
- In larger software projects, the set of test cases can be run every time a change is made to the code base.
  - `Unit tests` check that small bits of code are correctly implemented.
  - `Functional tests` check that larger chunks of code work correctly.
  - Running the tests can help to identify situations where a change in code in one place breaks the correct operation of some other code. We won’t see that advantage of test cases in this textbook, but keep in mind that this introduction to test cases is setting the stage for an essential software engineering practice if you are participating in a larger software development project.


to write code for test cases.

assert python expression
- If that expression evaluates to the `Boolean False`, then the interpreter will raise a `runtime error`.
- If the expression evaluates to `True`, then nothing happens and the execution goes on to the next line of code.

alert that some condition assumed was true is not in fact true.
- much better to be alerted right away than to have some unexpected result  in program execution, will have trouble tracing to the place where had an error.


## 18.1 test.testEqual

```py

# special module it made in runstone

def square(x):
    return x*x

import test
test.testEqual( square(9), 100)
#
```


## 18.2. Checking Assumptions 假定 About Data Types

python interpreter does not enforce restrictions about the data types of objects that can be bound to particular variables.
- The variable x in a python program can be bound to an integer at one point and to a list at some other point in the program execution.
- easier to get started
- however, type checking could alert us that something has gone wrong in our program execution. If we are assuming at that x is a list, but it’s actually an integer, then at some point later in the program execution, there will probably be an error.


```py
assert type(9.0//5) == int
# AssertionError:  on line 2
```

## 18.3. Checking Other Assumptions

can also check other assumptions about the values of variables,

```py
lst = ['a', 'b', 'c']
assert len(lst) < 10

```

## 18.4. Testing Conditionals

tests will cover both the `typical execution `of program and tests for `unusual things` that might happen, *edge cases*.

```py
if x < y:
    z = x
else:
    if x > y:
        z = y
    else:
        ## x must be equal to y
        ## it’s helpful to add comments like this
        // but might as well add an assert statement
        assert x==y
        // If the assert causes an error, know right away something wrong
        z = 0
```


## 18.5. Testing Loops

With a for loop, the `edge cases` might include iterating over an empty list or string, or iterating over a list with different kinds of contents.

```py

1.

    nums = [1, 5, 8]

    accum = 0
    for w in nums:
        accum = accum + w
    assert accum == 14

2.

    nums = []

    accum = 0
    for w in nums:
        accum = accum + w
    # suppose wanted it to be the special python value None
    # By assert statement, can be alerted that code doesn’t produce the answer wanted.
    assert accum == None
```


## 18.6. Writing Test Cases for Functions

A function defines an operation that can be performed. If the function takes one or more parameters, it is supposed to work properly on a variety of possible inputs. Each test case will check whether the function works properly on one set of possible inputs.

A useful function will do some combination of three things, given its input parameters:
- Return a value, write `return value tests`.
- Modify the contents of some mutable object, like a list or dictionary, write `side effect tests`.
- Print something or write something to a file. Tests of whether a function generates the right printed output are beyond the scope of this testing framework; you won’t write these tests.


### 18.6.1. Return Value Tests

how to generate `edge cases`:
- find `equivalence classes` of the different kinds of inputs the function might get.
- For example, the input to the square function could be either positive or negative. We then choose an input from each of these classes.
- It is important to have *at least one test* for each *equivalence class* of inputs.

`Semantic errors` are often caused by improperly handling the boundaries between equivalence classes.
- The boundary for this problem is zero.
- It is important to have a test at each boundary.

```py
def square(x):
    return x*x

assert square(3) == 9
# return value test.

```

### 18.6.2. Side Effect Tests

To test whether a function makes correct changes to a mutable object, need more than one line of code.
- first set the mutable object to some value, then run the function, then check whether the object has the expected value.

`side effect test`: check whether the function invocation has had the correct side effect on the mutable object.


```py
def update_counts(letters, counts_d):
    for c in letters:
        if c not in counts_d:
            counts_d[c] = 0
        counts_d[c] += 1


counts = {'a': 3, 'b': 2}
update_counts("aaab", counts)

print(counts)
# 3 more occurrences of a, so 6 in all
assert counts['a'] == 6
```



### 18.7. Testing Optional Parameters

If a function takes an optional parameter, one of the edge cases to test for is when no parameter value is supplied during execution.

```py
assert sorted([1, 7, 4]) == [1, 4, 7]
assert sorted([1, 7, 4], reverse=True) == [7, 4, 1]
```

---

## 18.8. 👩‍💻 Program Development

`incremental development`: avoid long debugging sessions by adding and testing only a small amount of code at a time.


write `unit tests` before doing the incremental development,
- will be able to track your progress as the code passes more and more of the tests.
- Alternatively, write `additional tests` at each stage of incremental development.












.
