---
layout: post
title: "API"
date: 2021-01-30 22:25:30  +0800
categories: [TIL, 2021년 01월]
tags: [TIL]
---

**WEB API**

What is WEB API?  
API stands for Application Programming Interface.  
A Web API is an application programming interface for the Web.  
A Browser API can extend the functionality of a web browser.  
A Server API can extend the functionality of a web server.

**Browser APIs**

All browsers have a s et of built-in Web APIs to support complex operations, and to help accessign data.  
For example, the Geolocation API can return the coordinates of where the browser is located.

**Third Party APIs**

Third party APIs are not built into your browers.  
To use these APIs, you will have to download the code from the Web.  
Examples:

- Youtube API - Allows you to display videos on a web site.
- Twitter API - Allows you to display Tweets on a web site.
- Facebook API - Allows you to dispaly Face book info on a web site.

**The localStorage Object**

The localStorage object provides access to a local storage for a particular Web Site. It allows you to store, read, add, modify, and delete data items for that domain.
The data is stored with no expiration date, and will not be deleted when the browser is closed.
The data will be available for days, weeks, and years.

**The setItem() Method**

The localStorage.setItem() method stores a data item in a storage.  
It takes a name and a value as parameters:

```JavaScript
localStorage.setItem("name, "Je Kim");
```

**The getItem() Method**

The localStorage.getItem() method retrieves a data item from the storage. It takes a name as parameter:

```JavaScript
localStorage.getItem("name")
```

**Storage Object Properties and Methods**

key(n): Returns the name of the nth key in the storage  
length: Returns the number of data items stored in the Storage object
getItem(keyname): Returns the value of the specified key name  
setItem(keyname, value): Adds that key to the storage, or update that key's value if it already exists  
removeItem(keyname): Removes that key from the storage  
clear(): Empty all key out of the storage
