---
title: Apply!
author: maksim
date: 2023-07-17
categories: [Application]
tags: [apply, tutorial, preliminaries]
---


Hello there,

👀 If you're an early career researcher — PhD student, postdoc, or advanced master's student — join us for a hands-on 3-day workshop focused on Large Language Models in Social Sciences happening **27-29 September**. This is your chance to dive deep into NLP and expand your research horisons!

## Eligibility
Participation is restricted to postgraduate students, including masters, doctoral and early career researchers (within 3 years of PhD completion). We welcome applicants from all backgrounds and fields of study within social sciences.

> We strongly encourage applications from those identifying with underrepresented groups in academia, NLP, and tech.
{: .prompt-tip }

We are expecting to invite about 15 participants. You will be expected to fully attend, participate and engage in the entire workshop program. 

> We will be apply to provide up to 200£ travel reimbursemnt to some participants travelling from outside of Oxford[^footnote]
{: .prompt-tip }

Interested? Apply here [**link**](https://forms.gle/BVYmKGhepGE9Y5HT6). 💼 Don't forget to include your CV and a brief statement of interest.  
> Hurry, applications close on `08 Aug 2023` ⏰
{: .prompt-warning }

We will notify all applicants on the application outcome on Tuesday `15 Aug 2023`.

Let's explore the world of large language models together! 🎉 We can't wait to see you at our workshop.

[^footnote]: We are able to fund at least five participants who will be selected by a lottery should there be more applications. We might provide additional travel grants if additional funding becomes available. All grant recipients will be notified together with the main notification on pariticipation applicaiton.   
