---
layout: post
title:  "The Big Bang"
description: >-
  An introduction to me, my website and mostly my projects.
published: true
categories: tech homelab website
date: 2024-03-29 20:55:00 +0800
tags: blog tech website
author: Mark
pin: true
---

## Welcome

So, I was sitting around and figured I’d need to start working on my professional presence and updating my resume and socials. I landed on [my Github](https://github.com/MarkDPierce/) and remembered I had set this website up as a learning experience. I wanted to learn and understand how you could host a blog or personal portfolio via Github that was not wordpress based. Having done it, I was satisfied, took note of the work and moved on with my life. See, I just wanted to learn some cool new technology out of curiosity, not actually administer or concern myself with a web page.

Refreshing my resume and  [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mdpierce1/) triggered me though. I can't let this website that holds my name be this empty shell, incomplete, “forgotten” project that could give those viewing the idea I don't follow through with things or leave things in an unfinished state. The second thing I hope to address by actually putting in the effort to maintain and contribute to this site is that it will make me a better tech writer and enable me to dump thoughts so I can sleep at night.

So, with that. I would like to welcome you to this revamped version of my website. I hope I can carry on and keep adding content to it and as a method of providing the incentive. I have decided to take my homelab setup and deconstruct elements of the setup to provide content here. The hope is that I can flesh out content here and using my homelab would be ideal content and subject matter.
So, get ready to read about my adventures with Proxmox, K3s, Docker and all the hardware i'm using to run everything!
