---
title: CommandList - Linux text transfer
date: 2020-07-16 11:11:11 -0400
categories: [30System, CommandTool]
tags: [CommandTool]
math: true
image:
---


# sed ("stream editor")

- parses and transforms text, using a simple, compact programming language.
- most notably with the substitution command.
- Popular alternative tools for plaintext string manipulation and "stream editing" include AWK and Perl.

# tr
- a command in Unix and Unix-like operating systems.
- an abbreviation of translate / transliterate
- operation of replacing or removing `specific characters` in its input data set.


# patch (Unix)
- updates text files according to instructions contained in a separate file, called a patch file.
- The patch file (also called a patch for short) is a text file that consists of a list of differences and is produced by running the related diff program with the original and updated file as arguments.
- Updating files with patch is often referred to as applying the patch or simply patching the files.



# m4 (computer language)
- ext-replacement tool. It is employed to re-use text templates, typically in computer programming applications, but also in text editing and text-processing applications.
- Most users require m4 as a dependency of GNU autoconf.


# pr (Unix)
- to paginate or columnate files for printing.
- It can also be used to compare two files side by side, as an alternative to diff.


# awk
- searches files for text containing a pattern.
- When a line or text matches, awk performs a specific action on that line/text.
- The Program statement tells awk what operation to do; Program statement consists of a series of "rules" where each rule specifies one pattern to search for, and one action to perform when a particular pattern is found.
- A regular expression enclosed in slashes (/) is an awk pattern to match every input record whose text belongs to that set.
