---
title: NetworkSec - Layer 3 - Router
# author: Grace JyL
date: 2018-05-18 11:11:11 -0400
description:
excerpt_separator:
categories: [15NetworkSec]
tags: [NetworkSec]
math: true
# pin: true
toc: true
# image: /assets/img/note/tls-ssl-handshake.png
---

[toc]

---


# NetworkSec - Layer 3 - Router

**each port 1 collision domain, 1 broadcast/port **

---

## Router

- `makes decisions based on logical network address` (like IP address)
  - has the capability to consider high-layer traffic parameters (like quality of service [QoS] settings) in making its forwarding decisions.

A router :
- **connects multiple network segments together into a single network**.
  - routes traffic between the segments.
    - Example
    - the Internet is effectively a single network hosting billions of computers.
    - Routers route the traffic from segment to segment.
- **routers don’t pass broadcasts**
  - Moving computers to a different segment separated by a router:
  - `effectively reduce traffic` on single segment.
  - `significantly improve overall performance`
    - Segments separated by routers are `one broadcast domains`.
    - network with too many computers on a single segment,
    - broadcasts can result in `excessive collisions` and `reduce network performance`.
- Similarly, subnetting networks creates separate broadcast domains.


---

## router and switch.

difference between router and switch.


| device | switch                                                          | router                                                                                      |
| ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| .      | simple                                                          | sophisticated                                                                               |
| .      | forward packets in a single network                             | forward packets to multiple networks                                                        |
| .      | uses **learned associations** to reduce the use of broadcasting | uses **routing tables** to determine how to forward packets, avoiding broadcast altogether. |


why router rather than multilayer switch?
- more `feature-rich`
- support a `broader range of interface types`.
  - example
    - to connect a Layer 3 device out to Internet service provider (ISP) using a serial port
    - more likely to find a serial port expansion module for router, rather than multilayer switch.



---



## Cisco routers

Connections of router:
- `Straight through`:
  - Switch-router, switch-PC, router-server, hub-PC. Hub-router
- `Cross-over`:
  - switch-hub
  - Switch-switch, PC-PC, hub-hub, router-router

Cisco routers are popular, but many other brands exist.
- physical devices, most efficient.
- However, it’s also possible to add routing software to computers with more than one NIC.
- Example: Windows Server products can function as routers by adding additional services to the server.


---

## Antispoofing

> From (New S+ ch3)


Spoofing:
- to impersonate or masquerade as someone or something else.
- For routers:
  - attacker `spoof the source IP address`
  - replacing it with a different one.
  - to hide the actual source of the packet.

antispoofing on router:
- `modifying the access list to allow / block IP addresses`.

> Example:
> private IP addresses should only be used in private networks.
> Any traffic coming from the Internet using a private IP address as the source IP address is obviously an attempt to spoof the source IP address.

The following three rules would be implemented on a router:
- `deny ip 10.0.0.0 0.255.255.255 any`
- `deny ip 172.16.0.0 0.15.255.255 any`
- `deny ip 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255 any`
- 10.0.0.0 0.255.255.255 covers all the IP addresses in the range of 10.0.0.0 through 10.255.255.255.
